\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename libfc.info
@settitle libfc
@setchapternewpage odd

@ifinfo
@c This is a dir.info fragment to support semi-automated addition of
@c manuals to an info tree.  zoo@cygnus.com is developing this facility.
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* libfc: (libfc).                Profiling your program's execution
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
This file documents the profiler called libfc (FunctionCheck).

Copyright (C) 2001-2002, Yannick Perret.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@finalout
@smallbook

@titlepage
@title libfc
@subtitle A new profiler for @sc{gcc}
@author Yannick Perret

@page

This manual describes the profiler called @code{libfc}, and how you
can use it to determine which parts of a program are taking most of the
execution time.  We assume that you know how to write, compile, and
execute programs.  @code{libfc} was written by Yannick Perret.

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2002 Yannick Perret.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@end titlepage

@ifinfo
@node Top
@top Profiling a Program: Where Does It Spend Its Time?

This manual describes the profiler called @code{libfc}, and how you
can use it to determine which parts of a program are taking most of the
execution time.  We assume that you know how to write, compile, and
execute programs.  @code{libfc} was written by Yannick Perret.

Note: this info file is for @samp{libfc} V3.0.9.

Note: this info file is initially based on @code{gprof}'s manual.
Thanks to authors.

@menu
* Introduction::        What profiling means, and why it is useful.
* Features::            What @code{libfc} is able to do.
* Compiling::           How to compile your program for profiling.
* Executing::           Executing your program to generate profile data
* Output::		Interpreting @code{libfc}'s output
* Details::             Details of how profiling is done
* Limits::              What @code{libfc} can't do or con't do well
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction to Profiling

Profiling allows you to learn where your program spent its time and which
functions called which other functions while it was executing.  This
information can show you which pieces of your program are slower than you
expected, and might be candidates for rewriting to make your program
execute faster.  It can also tell you which functions are being called more
or less often than you expected.  This may help you spot bugs that had
otherwise been unnoticed.

Since the profiler uses information collected during the actual execution
of your program, it can be used on programs that are too large or too
complex to analyze by reading the source.  However, how your program is run
will affect the information that shows up in the profile data.  If you
don't use some feature of your program while it is being profiled, no
profile information will be generated for that feature.

@code{fcdump} profiler is divided into two main parts.  The first one is
the profiling part, compouned by @code{libfc} library, which needs to
be linked with the program to be profiled, and @code{fcmanager} program,
which treats profiling data.  The second part is the @code{fcdump} program
itself which extracts and displays profile information for your program.

Profiling has several steps:

@itemize @bullet
@item
You must compile and link your program with profiling enabled.
@xref{Compiling}.

@item
You must execute your program to generate a profile data file.
@xref{Executing}.

@item

You must analyze the profile data (see @code{fcdump} to perform this task).
@xref{Output}.
@end itemize

The next three chapters explain these steps in greater detail.


@node Features
@chapter What it is Able to Do


@code{libfc} is a library which is linked to the program to
profile. This library tracks actions performed by the profiled
program during execution, and send these data to a program
called @code{fcmanager}, which is started by @code{libfc}
at initialization stage. @code{fcmanager} treats all these
data and generates profile data file(s) which resume the
execution characteristics.

In addition (since version V3.0.3) it allows to get memory
leaks and invalid pointers given to @code{free} and @code{realloc},
with additionnal informations such as the place where it happend
and the call-stack at this time.

Supported features are:

@itemize @bullet
@item
C/C++ programs, including constructors/destructors.

@item
Multi-process/multi-thread programs, generating separate profile data
files for each of them. Of course single-process/no-thread programs
can be profiled too.

@item
Profile highly configurable at execution time, via shell variables or
ressource files.

@item
Memory leaks during execution.

@end itemize


@node Compiling
@chapter Compiling a Program for Profiling

The first step in generating profile information for your program is
to compile and link it with profiling enabled. Remember that @code{libfc}
can only be used with @code{gcc} V2.95.2 or higher.


To compile a source file for profiling, you have to specify a set
of options to @code{gcc} at compilation and link stages.
These options can be given by @code{fc-config} script.

Just add @samp{`fc-config --cflags`} in your compilation lines.
This is in addition to the options you normally give to @code{gcc}.


To link the program for profiling, use again @code{fc-config} program.
Just add @samp{`fc-config --libs`} in your link line. As previously,
this is in addition to the options you normally give to @code{gcc}
or @code{ld}.

Here are some examples:

@example
gcc `fc-config --cflags` -c myprog.c
gcc `fc-config --cflags` -c utils.c
gcc `fc-config --libs` -o myprog myprog.o utils.o
@end example

You can also use @code{fc-config} with a command
that both compiles and links:

@example
gcc `fc-config --cflags` `fc-config --libs` -o myprog myprog.c utils.c
@end example

or even shorter:

@example
gcc `fc-config --cflags-libs` -o myprog myprog.c utils.c
@end example

If you compile only some of the modules of the program with
profiling options, you
can still profile the program, but you won't get complete information about
the modules that were compiled without profiling options.
The only information you get is the time spend in them, seen as local
time for the calling functions.

Note that some strange results may be generated if a profiled function
calls a not profiled function which calls a profiled function...


The script @code{fc-config} is generated when you build @code{libfc}.
In particular it set the correct version number and the pathes to
access to the library @code{libfc} and the profile manager
@code{fcmanager}. In addition, it set some flags needed by your
compiled programs in order to allow profile.
Special options exist for @code{fc-config}:

@itemize @bullet

@item
@samp{--version} gives the version of the installed @code{libfc}

@item
@samp{--cflags} gives all the needed options to compile an object
for profiling

@item
@samp{--libs} gives all the needed options to link objects
in order to generate a program ready for profiling

@item
@samp{--cflags-libs} or @samp{--libs-cflags} gives all the needed
options to compile and link on the same @code{gcc} line

@end itemize

In addition to basic needs for compilation/link, @code{fc-config}
redirects some functions for internal treatments. These functions are
@code{fork}, @code{pthread_create}, @code{dlopen}, @code{dlsym}
and @code{dlclose}. The redirection is made using the
@samp{-Dsymbol=new_symbol} option of @code{gcc}.

It may be a problem for your program if you still redirect these
functions (such as with @samp{#define} macro commands). If you
have troubles with that, you can disable the redirections
using optional flags. These flags are @samp{--no-dl} to prevent
redirection of @code{dlfcn} functions, @samp{--no-fork} to prevent
@code{fork} redirection and @samp{--no-thread} to prevent
@code{pthread_create} redirection.

Warning: these options MUST be given AFTER the action flags
(one of @samp{--cflags}, @samp{--libs} or @samp{--cflags-libs}).

@node Executing
@chapter Executing the Program

Once the program is compiled for profiling, you must run it in order to
generate the profile data file(s).  Simply run the program
as usual, using the normal arguments, file names, etc.  The program should
run normally, producing the same output as usual.  It will, however, run
somewhat slower than normal because of the time spent collecting
the profile data.

The way you run the program---the arguments and input that you give
it---may have a dramatic effect on what the profile information shows.  The
profile data will describe the parts of the program that were activated for
the particular input you use.  For example, if the first command you give
to your program is to quit, the profile data will show the time used in
initialization and in cleanup, but not much else.

@code{fcmanager} will write the profile data into a file called
@file{functioncheck.fc} just before exiting. 
If there is already a file called @file{functioncheck.fc},
its contents are overwritten.  You can specify an other file name
by setting the shell variable @samp{FC_DUMP_NAME} with the needed file name.

If your program uses @code{fork()} function or multi-thread,
a profile data file will be generated for each of the process/thread
existing during the execution.  In this case, the processes will dump into
@file{functioncheck.fc.NNN} or whatever name you set,
with @samp{NNN} an identifier of each process (PID or pthread_self()).

The @file{functioncheck.fc} file is written in the program's
@emph{current working directory} at the time it starts.
You can change the directory used by setting the shell variable
@samp{FC_DUMP_PATH} with the needed path name.

If several processes are present, a file named @file{functioncheck.fcd} is
generated. This file contains a description of all files generated by
the profiler. For each of them, the corresponding identifier and the file
name generated are given.
Moreover, a try is make
to display the launching tree of the processes.


The default mode for @code{libfc} is the @samp{FORK} mode.
In this mode you can profile single-process programs, multi-processes
programs (programs which use @code{fork()} function) and multi-threads
program.

In this mode threads will be seen as processes and identified by
their process-id (PID). This is possible because linux threads use
different processes to run threads. Moreover some FORK specific treatments
are made which are not useful for threaded cases.
You may switch @code{libfc} to @samp{THREAD} mode if you intend to profile a
multi-thread program.

In @samp{FORK} mode, single-process programs can be profiled without
any restriction. But if you know that your program will never uses
@code{fork()} calls, you can switch to @samp{SINGLE} mode in order to
optimize treatments performed by @code{libfc} (it reduce the cost
of the treatments performed during profile).

Please note that using @samp{SINGLE} mode with multi-processes or
multi-threaded programs will give erroneous profile data files.

See below for profile-mode selection.


Notes:

@code{fcmanager} program must be in the @samp{PATH} of your profiled program,
and the @code{libfc} library must be in the @samp{LD_LIBRARY_PATH}.


Several shell variables can be used to change profile behavior:

@itemize @bullet

@item
@samp{FC_TIME_MODE}: set the kind of time used for profiling. The
possible values are @samp{tsc}, @samp{ext}, @samp{sys} and @samp{cpu}.
@samp{tsc} means that the processor time stamp counter is used.
In this mode, the rdtsc instruction is called.  Available in x86
processor since Pentium or higher. 
@samp{ext} means that the real clock time is used. In this mode
a function that runs during one second will appear with the same
time in the profile data files. @samp{sys} and @samp{cpu} are
(for the moment) the same. The time used is the CPU time. Time
spend by the system in other programs, input/output treatments...
is not taked in count. In most case this mode gives really small
execution time. The default value is @samp{tsc}.

@item
@samp{FC_NO_FORK}: if set, @code{libfc} will switch to @samp{SINGLE}
mode. In this mode, you can only profile single-process programs,
but treatments are optimized.

@item
@samp{FC_ALLOW_THREAD}: if set, @code{libfc} will switch to @samp{THREAD}
mode. In this mode, you can profile multi-threads programs.
Do not use this mode with multi-processes programs, because some
informations may be discared in the profile data files.

@item
@samp{FC_DUMP_NAME}: if not set, the default name for profile data
files is @samp{functioncheck}, plus the extention (@samp{.fc}).
You can set your own name in this variable.

@item
@samp{FC_DUMP_PATH}: if not set, profile data files are generated
in the directory in which your program starts. You can specify a
new path in this variable.

@item
@samp{FC_HELP}: if set, @code{libfc} will display a summary of
the available options and stops.

@item
@samp{FC_QUIET}: if set, @code{libfc} will not display any information
message that are normaly given at the begin and the end of the
program execution.

@item
@samp{FC_DEBUG}: if @code{libfc} and @code{fcmanager} were compiled
with debug enabled, this variable activates the debug mode
(only usefull for @code{libfc} developpers).

@item
@samp{FC_STACK_SIZE}: set the initial stack size used by
@code{fcmanager}. The default value is 512.

@item
@samp{FC_GRAPH_SIZE}: set the initial graph-table size used by
@code{fcmanager}. The default value is 512.

@item
@samp{FC_FUNCTION_SIZE}: set the initial function-table size used by
@code{fcmanager}. The default value is 512.

@item
@samp{FC_BUFFER_SIZE}: set the number of elements in 
the buffer in the global shared memory used for communications
between @code{libfc} and @code{fcmanager}. The default value is 4096.

@item
@samp{FC_MEMORY}: if set, @code{libfc} will profile memory
operations during execution. @code{malloc}, @code{free}, @code{realloc}
and @code{memalign} are hooked in order to manage the state of
the memory blocks used during execution. At exit, each remaining
block is dropped in the profile data file (for each process).

In addition the call-stack at allocation time is stored. You can
set the call-stack depth stored with @samp{FC_MEMORY_STACK} variable
(default depth is 4).


@end itemize


When running your profiled program, some informations are
given by @code{libfc} and @code{fcmanager} (if you set the
@samp{FC_QUIET} variable, no informations are given).

First, @code{libfc} gives the list of current options and
values used for the profile. It looks like:

@example
FCheck: Starting FunctionCheck V3.0 by Y.Perret
FCheck: Profile parameters are:
FCheck:   functions table size : 512
FCheck:       stack table size : 512
FCheck:             graph size : 512
FCheck:            buffer size : 4096
FCheck:              time mode : ext
FCheck:         profiling mode : forks allowed / no threads
FCheck:             debug mode : off
FCheck:       profiling memory : off
FCheck:         dump-file name : functioncheck
FCheck:         dump-file path : ./
FCheck: 
@end example

Regarding to the variables you set before running your program,
the values can be different. In particular the profile mode
is @samp{forks allowed / no threads} in the (default) @samp{FORK}
mode, is @samp{no forks / no threads} in @samp{SINGLE} mode and
is @samp{no forks / threads allowed} in @samp{THREAD} mode.


Then you will see the profile manager (@code{fcmanager}) starting:

@example
FCMng: Profile manager: running [NNN]
@end example
where 'NNN' is the process-id of the profile manager.


Your program will then run as usual. At the end of the execution,
the profile manager will alert you:

@example
FCMng: communication pipe closed. end of profiled program.
FCMng: Profile file is './/functioncheck.fc'
FCMng: Profile manager: exit
@end example
The profile manager gives the name of the generated profile data file.

If more than one profile data file is generated (multi-processes or
multi-threads), each file is post-fixed with the identifier of
the corresponding entity (the process-id or the thread-id).
In each cases, a summary file called @samp{functioncheck.fcd} is
generated. This file describe all the .fc files generated: name,
corresponding process/thread, parent for processes).
In this case, the manager prints the name of the generated
summary, which default name is @samp{functioncheck.fdc}.
Here is a sample of @samp{functioncheck.fdc} content:
@example
FunctionCheck descriptor file.
2 processes treated.
Treatments started at: 70/00/01 01:07:56
Treatments ended at: 102/02/15 13:13:00

Process id: 1024
    parent: pthread_create
      file: .//functioncheck_thread.fc.1024

Process id: 1026
    parent: pthread_create
      file: .//functioncheck_thread.fc.1026
@end example


Note: if some troubles occur during profile (profile mode do not
correspond to the current program) warning or fatal messages
can be displayed during execution.


@node Output
@chapter Interpreting @code{libfc}'s Output


The format of .fc files is very simple and can be read as
a text file. In the description below, the corresponding
format to use in @code{scanf} is given at the en of each line.
Lines that contain @samp{(...n...)} indicate that it is
a list of 'n' elements.

@example
functioncheck_v3.0			%s
unique_ID				%s
time_mode				%d
profile_mode				%d
PID					%d
PPID					%d
exec_time				%u
Ncg					%d
from to	nb				%p%p%d
from to	nb				%p%p%d
(...Ncg...)
from to	nb				%p%p%d
Nf
fnc calls loc tot tmin tmax lmin lmax	%p%d%lld%lld%u%u%u%u
fnc calls loc tot tmin tmax lmin lmax	%p%d%lld%lld%u%u%u%u
(...Nf...)
fnc calls loc tot tmin tmax lmin lmax	%p%d%lld%lld%u%u%u%u
Ndl
addr name				%p%s
addr name				%p%s
(...Ndl...)
addr name				%p%s
nb_elements
addr size loc reloc stk stk ... NULL	%p%d%p%p%p%p...%p
addr size loc reloc stk stk ... NULL	%p%d%p%p%p%p...%p
(...nb_elements...)
addr size loc reloc stk stk ... NULL	%p%d%p%p%p%p...%p
nb_elements
loc pointer stack stack ... NULL	%p%p%p%p...%p
loc pointer stack stack ... NULL	%p%p%p%p...%p
(...nb_elements...)
loc pointer stack stack ... NULL	%p%p%p%p...%p
nb_elements
loc pointer stack stack ... NULL	%p%p%p%p...%p
loc pointer stack stack ... NULL	%p%p%p%p...%p
(...nb_elements...)
loc pointer stack stack ... NULL	%p%p%p%p...%p
@end example

The first line (@samp{functioncheck_v3.0}) is the header
of the file, to check if it was generated by @code{libfc} V3.0.

The @samp{unique_ID} is a string which is unique for a given
execution of a program. This is used in case of multi-processes
or multi-threads program, as each of the generated
@samp{functioncheck.fc.NNN} files share the same unique ID
(useful to group several files to obtain an overview of the
program execution, including all its processes/threads).

@samp{time_mode} is an @code{int} that indicate the time unit
used during profile. Possible values are given in the file
@samp{src/fc_blobal.h} and are: 1: "tsc", 2: "ext", 3: "cpu" and 4: "sys".
Any other value is invalid.

@samp{profile_mode} is an @code{int} that indicate the profile mode
used during profile. Possible values are given in the file
@samp{src/fc_blobal.h} and are: 1: @samp{SINGLE},
2: @samp{FORK} and 3: @samp{THREAD}.
Any other value is invalid.

@samp{PID} and @samp{PPID} give respectively the process identifier
and the process identifier current process parent. In @samp{SINGLE}
or @samp{FORK} mode identifiers are process-id (PID). In @samp{THREAD}
mode identifiers are thread-id, obtain by @code{pthread_self()}
function. Note that in @samp{THREAD} mode the parent identifier
is not relevant.

The @samp{exec_time} is the total number of microsecond elasped
in this process. In fact this time is the difference between the
last and the first events known for this process.

@samp{Ncg} indicates the number of call-graph arcs to read. Each
comming lines are pairs of @samp{from} and @samp{to} addresses.
Each line defines a call to address @samp{to}, from address
@samp{from} (in the program address space). The following number
is the number of time this call was performed during the execution.

@samp{Nf} indicates the number of functions entries to read. Each
line describes statistics for a function. @samp{fnc} is the
function symbol address. @samp{calls} is the total number of calls
to this function. @samp{loc} and @samp{tot} are respectively
the local and total time spend in the function. Total time is the
time of presence of the function is the call-stack, and local time
is this time minus the time spend in child functions. @samp{tmin} and
@samp{tmax} are respectively the minimum and maximum total time
spend in the function for one call. If a function is called only once,
@samp{tmin} and  @samp{tmax} will be the same. @samp{lmin}
and @samp{lmax} are the same but for local time.
 
@samp{Ndl} indicates the number of dynamic library to read.
Each line gives an additionnal dynamic library that was used
by the program at execution time. @samp{addr} is the base address
of the library (in the program address space) and @samp{name}
is the library name.

Only files from version higher or equal to V3.0.3 are concerned
by this part.

@samp{nb_elements} indicates the number of memory leaks.
From left to right, the entries are: address returned by the
@code{malloc} or @code{memalign}, initial size of the block
(reallocation sizes are not stored), symbol address where the
allocation happends, symbol address where the reallocation happends
(or NULL else), and then the call-stack corresponding to the
allocation, ended by a NULL pointer.

@samp{nb_elements} indicates the number of invalid free.
From left to right, the entries are: symbol address where the
invalid @code{free} was called, the pointer passed to @code{free},
and then the call-stack corresponding to the @code{free},
ended by a NULL pointer.

@samp{nb_elements} indicates the number of invalid reallocation.
From left to right, the entries are: symbol address where the
invalid @code{realloc} was called, the pointer passed to @code{realloc},
and then the call-stack corresponding to the @code{realloc},
ended by a NULL pointer.



Note that any of the number of elements can be equal to zero,
except for the number of arcs and the number of functions.



@node Details
@chapter Details of Profiling

More details about how @code{libfc} library perform its job.

@menu
* Implementation::      How the library collects profiling information
* File Format::         Format of @samp{functioncheck.fc} files
* Internals::           @code{fcmanager}'s internal operation
* Debugging::           Using debug while executing programs
@end menu

@node Implementation,File Format,,Details
@section Implementation of Profiling

The @code{libfc} library uses a feature of @code{gcc} V2.95.2
(or higher) called @samp{-finstrument-functions}.  This option
makes @samp{gcc} to add to every functions a call at enter and at exit.
The @code{libfc} library provides these two functions called
@code{void __cyg_profile_func_enter(void *this_fn, void *call_site)}
and @code{void __cyg_profile_func_exit(void *this_fn, void *call_site)}.

The @code{libfc} library also provides functions called
@code{_init()} and @code{_fini()} to perform some initializations
and cleanups before and after the profiled program starts or stops.

The @code{libfc} library starts the @code{fcmanager} program,
and send to it all the enter/exit that occur during the program
execution. @samp{fcmanager} manages a stack of function calls and a
list of functions.  For each of them, the number of calls, the
time spend in them (local and total) is computed.  Moreover the
execution call-graph is stored in order to be saved with profile data.

At exit time (when the stream between the program and @samp{fcmanager}
is cutted), all these data are dumped into a file
in order to be analysed.

Note: the @code{libfc}/@code{fcmanager} pair only works with
symbol addresses of functions, and not with names.
Names can be extracted from the program and the library list
using @code{binutils} tools.

@node File Format,Internals,Implementation,Details
@section Profiling Data File Format

Here is a short description of profile data file format.
A more detailled version is given above.

@example
functioncheck_v3.0			%s
unique_ID				%s
time_mode				%d
profile_mode				%d
PID					%d
PPID					%d
exec_time				%lld
Ncg					%d
from to					%p%p
from to					%p%p
(...Ncg...)
from to					%p%p
Nf
fnc calls loc tot tmin tmax lmin lmax	%p%d%lld%lld%lld%lld%lld%lld
fnc calls loc tot tmin tmax lmin lmax	%p%d%lld%lld%lld%lld%lld%lld
(...Nf...)
fnc calls loc tot tmin tmax lmin lmax	%p%d%lld%lld%lld%lld%lld%lld
Ndl
addr name				%p%s
addr name				%p%s
(...Ndl...)
addr name				%p%s
nb_elements				%d
blk size loc reloc stk stk ... NULL	%p%u%p%p%p...%p
blk size loc reloc stk stk ... NULL	%p%u%p%p%p...%p
(...nb_elements...)
blk size loc reloc stk stk ... NULL	%p%u%p%p%p...%p
nb_elements				%d
loc ptr stk stk ... NULL		%p%p%p...%p
loc ptr stk stk ... NULL		%p%p%p...%p
(...nb_elements...)
loc ptr stk stk ... NULL		%p%p%p...%p
nb_elements				%p
loc ptr stk stk ... NULL		%p%p%p...%p
loc ptr stk stk ... NULL		%p%p%p...%p
(...nb_elements...)
loc ptr stk stk ... NULL		%p%p%p...%p
@end example



@node Internals,Debugging,File Format,Details
@section @code{fcmanager}'s Internal Operation

Here are the treatments performed by @code{fcmanager} program for
each enter/exit of functions:

At the first call:

Initializations of hash-tables, options, stack.

When entering a function:
@table @bullet
@item
add the call in the call-graph (if not still present)
@item
check if the function is still registered, and register it if it is not
the case.
@item
store the function and its entering time in the stack
@item
compute the additional local time for the calling function. It is the
time between the last active time of this function minus the current time.
@end table

When exiting a function:
@table @bullet
@item
compute the total execution time (difference between entering time and
current time)
@item
increment number of calls
@item
update min/max values
@item
compute the additional local time for the calling function. It is the
time between the last active time of this function minus the current time.

@end table

When leaving the program:

Creates the profile data file and dumps data into it.  Freed allocated
tables.


Some specific treatments are performed in @samp{FORK} or @samp{THREAD}
modes.

When receiving a enter/exit message, a test is done to see if the
process identifier exists. If not a new context is create for
this new process. In any cases, informations are added in the context
of the process.

In @samp{FORK} mode, special treatments are performed at context
creation in order to allow exits from unkown functions (in the
new context).


@node Debugging,,Internals,Details
@subsection Debugging during execution

In order to allow debug during execution, you have to compile
the @code{libfc} library  and the @code{fcmanager}
with compilation flag @samp{-DFC_DEBUG}.
This allows you to use the shell variable @samp{FC_DEBUG}.


@node Limits
@chapter What @code{libfc} can't do or can't do well

@code{libfc} have some limitations or things that are done in a bad way.

@table @bullet

@item
For V3.0.3+: memory profiling is performed using @samp{hooks} from
the @code{libc}'s @code{malloc.h}. Without @code{libc} this part
of the profiler will not be available. In addition if your program
gives its own hooks, the given leaks will be correct but all
locations will be invalid, as they will reflect your own hooks,
and not your program.

@item
profile of objects opended with @code{dlopen()} may be corrupted.
This is due to the fact that functions addresses are re-used when
an object is closed. In addition it is not possible to know the
object name (it is not given in the profile data file) and the
base address during execution.

The only known way to prevent this is a hack:

just link your program with all the dynamic objects that might
be opended with @code{dlopen()}. Like this, addresses are pre-reserved
in your program address space, and no address collision will
occur, and objects names will be available.

@item
the functions table in @code{fcmanager} is a hash-table. It is so
very difficult to resize it at low cost. At this time, profile
is aborted in case of function-table overflow. If this occur, set
a higher function-table size with @samp{FC_FUNCTION_SIZE} variable.

@item
in @samp{FORK} mode, the time elapsed between a @code{fork()} call
and the next event (enter or exit from a function) is discarded in
the child process. This will not be corrected, as I don't know how
to correct it!

@item
when exiting your program with 
with a @samp{core dump} technic, the time elapsed between the
last event (enter or exit in a function) and the time of the
program crash is discarded.

@item
an absolute limit of 72 mins of execution is allowed 
between two successive actions (actions are enters or exits
from profiled functions). If a function do nothing else than
local treatments (calls to non-profiled functions are viewed
as local treatments), corresponding times will be erroneous.

@item
if your program provides its own @code{_init()} and @code{_fini()}
functions, I'm not sure of the @code{gcc} behavior, but I think
the compilation will failed.

@item
if the profile mode is not adapted to your program (i.e. @samp{SINGLE}
mode with a multi-threads program) the @code{fcmanager} will
have difficulties to treat erroneous data received. You may have
SEVERAL warning messages from @code{fcmanager}, and trying to read
the generated profile data file make no sense.

It's not my fault! Set the adapted profile mode! :o)

@end table


@contents
@bye
